README.md, before:

# OC-Process-Discovery
A process discovery tool working on object-centric event logs extracted from SAP ERP. It was developed in the "Process Discovery Using Python" lab at RWTH. 
# Setup
## Manual setup: Python venv
This project runs on Python 3.9.13
1. Create virtual environment. For example with `python -m venv venv`
2. Activate virtual environment. For example with `source venv/bin/activate` or `venv\Scripts\activate.ps1` 
3. Install dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt --use-deprecated=legacy-resolver `
4. add /environment/.env file with content from .env.development
5. Run project / index.py
   1. in vs code: use the configuration stored in launch.json file
   2. in pycharm: use the configuration stored in .idea/runConfigurations/oc_process_discovery.xml file
## Docker setup
Note: Because SAPnwRFC is Plattform depencent and can't be shared in this repository due to lizensing, Extraction directly from SAP systems is yet not possible in Docker.
1. Check if pyrfc is commented out in requiremnts.txt
2. Build docker image: `docker build -t ocpaapp .`
3. Run image: `docker run --name ocpa -p 8084:8085 ocpaapp   `
# Usage
## Overview (Jean)
## Extraction from SAP (Marco)
You can use this tool to extract a OCEL containing O2C related events from SAP 4/hana or alternative from a sqlite database cotaining needed SAP tables. 
### Extraction from SAP Cloud
To use this feature you have to set the connection parameters and credentials for you SAP instancence:
1. In data-view click on Configuration (2) 

<img src="assets/images/extraction_1.PNG" alt="Welcome screen of eXdpn UI" style=""/>

2. In the popup: Select the parameter you want to change in the dropdown (3) type the new value (4) and click save (5).   

<img src="assets/images/extraction_config.PNG" alt="Welcome screen of eXdpn UI" style=""/>

3. Make sure your device is allowed to connect with SAP. After everything is set, close the Popup und start Extraction (5). 

#### Extraction from SQLite
You don't have to set SAP credentials. Instead go to Configuration Popup and select "Use SQLite 3 database instead SAP" (6)


### Dataset management (upload, download, delete) (Pedro)

In the data management page, you are given the possibility to either extract logs from the SAP or to upload them from your local file system. 

To do this the first way, simply click on the button "EXTRACT FROM SAP". A message should then appear on your screen, below the extraction button, telling you if the extraction was successful or not. Beside this button, you may notice that there is also another one, where "CONFIG" is written. Its main function is to allow you to configure all SAP connection parameters, which are: user,
passwd, ashost, saprouter, msserv, sysid, group, client, lang and trace. If you want you update one of those parameters, simply click on this button. A modal will then appear, where a drop-down menu with all the parameters is given. Choose the parameter you want to update, enter its new value, and then save your changes. A message should also appear under the "SAVE" button, telling you which parameter has been successfully updated.

If, instead of uploading logs from the SAP, you want to upload them from your own local file system, simply click on the button "Upload .jsonocel files". Your local file system should then pop up, enabling you to upload any desired file. Please note, however, that only .jsonocel files are accepted.

All your extracted and/or uploaded files should be visible in the section "View and select file for analysis". There, you will have not only the possibility of selecting specific files to be deleted, but also to be downloaded. All files will then be ready to be filtered, as we will see now thoroughly in the next section.

### Filtering datasets (Kacper)
On the same [data management page](dms) you can find a Filtering segment that presents you with an opportunity to refine your data based on the preliminary analysis results. That way, you can observe how your process models change in relation to minor modifications in the underlying data and draw conclusions accordingly. Our UI offers some tools and options that will make your work more productive and comprehensive:
#### Filter on Event Attributes
1. Choose the event attribute that you want to filter by, say, "ocel:activity"
2. Pick a list of values for that attribute from the dropdown that appeared after that.
3. Positive/Negative - here you have to decide whether you want to leave the values chosen in the data (Positive) or their complement (Negative)

This is how that would be implemented in the backend:
```
filtered_ocel = pm4py.filter_ocel_event_attribute(ocel, "ocel:activity", ["Item out of stock", "Fuel Car", "Reorder Item"], positive=False)
```
... and here's how you can achieve the same result with minimal effort using our UI:
![Event filtering](assets/images/filtering/event/event_filtering.gif)

#### Filter on Allowed Activities per Object Type
Similarly to Filter on Event Attributes, for the next type of filtering you need to:

1. Choose the object type that you want to filter by, e.g. "order"
2. Set the Positive/Negative flag
![Object filtering](assets/images/filtering/object/object_filtering.gif)

#### Buttons
To understand how the buttons work, one first needs to account for the mechanics behind filtering in this application and how it is interconnected with the data management system.
- First of all, filtering is carried out discretely (in steps) by pressing the **Filter** button. Every step may consist of one or more filtering options being used: this is done to make your work more efficient. If it makes sense to keep a couple of different filtering substeps part of the same logical step, you are more then welcome to apply more then one filter at the same time. 
- If you follow this path, it will be easier to go back in time using the **Rollback** button. Rollback reverts to the state of the data before the last filtering step was applied (so, basically, before you pressed the Filter button). 
- Sometimes, you may want to decide to abandon your changes to the data completely even after going through multiple filtering steps. This can be done using the **Rollback all** button. It gives you the guarantee of going back to the original state of the selected file.
- Together with the next button, **Save all**, the rollbacks enable you to version-control your datasets. After a given number of filtering steps, you can save your changes into a new file (with a name having a "_filtered" suffix). The original branch is then reset to the state before filtering. This functionality can also be used to copy files (after zero steps). Subsequently, the newly created file is automatically selected and so any next step will be applied to the old and not to the new file. 
  * Be careful: all intermediate states are deleted after saving changes to a new file. This means that rollback does not work on the new file anymore (or on the old one, since its state is reset too).
  * Don't worry about the filename resolution too much. If a filename is already in use, we will definitely find a free one!
  * You DO NOT have to save changes if you want to download the event log in its current form.
- Finally, **Clear all** is the Big Reset option that will come in handy once you want to move to a new task or start again from scratch. It will delete all files together with their intermediate states and replace them with a singular example event-log. It can thus be understood as a cache-cleaning tool and is also invoked on start-up of the application, preventing memory leaks and making sure it will not get cluttered after longer use. The user should consider either rebooting or pressing that button from time to time (given that they can export their more well-baked event logs and import them in a new instance anyway) instead of running the same instance indefinitely.
### Analysis (Jean)

## Troubleshooting
* It is possible that by filtering by event attributes you will, incidentally, filter out all event traces corresponding to a specific object type. You may therefore get a KeyError concerning this object type, since pm4py assumes that 
* If you press **Download** without pressing **Save all** first, you will download the most recent state (after filtering) of the event log to be sure but bear in mind that the old file will still preserve changes done to it. Meaning, if you uploaded that file again, the two event logs would be the same. Although it is the desired behavior, it differs from when you would just save the changes: then, the old file would be reset and the new one would preserve the changes.

## Further information
Links to the documentation of the used libraries and frameworks.

Commit message:

set positive/negative radio to negative as default

README.md, after:

# OC-Process-Discovery
A process discovery tool working on object-centric event logs extracted from SAP ERP. It was developed in the "Process Discovery Using Python" lab at RWTH. 
# Setup
## Manual setup: Python venv
This project runs on Python 3.9.13
1. Create virtual environment. For example with `python -m venv venv`
2. Activate virtual environment. For example with `source venv/bin/activate` or `venv\Scripts\activate.ps1` 
3. Install dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt --use-deprecated=legacy-resolver `
4. add /environment/.env file with content from .env.development
5. Run project / index.py
   1. in vs code: use the configuration stored in launch.json file
   2. in pycharm: use the configuration stored in .idea/runConfigurations/oc_process_discovery.xml file
## Docker setup
Note: Because SAPnwRFC is Plattform depencent and can't be shared in this repository due to lizensing, Extraction directly from SAP systems is yet not possible in Docker.
1. Check if pyrfc is commented out in requiremnts.txt
2. Build docker image: `docker build -t ocpaapp .`
3. Run image: `docker run --name ocpa -p 8084:8085 ocpaapp   `
# Usage
## Overview (Jean)
## Extraction from SAP (Marco)
You can use this tool to extract a OCEL containing O2C related events from SAP 4/hana or alternative from a sqlite database cotaining needed SAP tables. 
### Extraction from SAP Cloud
To use this feature you have to set the connection parameters and credentials for you SAP instancence:
1. In data-view click on Configuration (2) 

<img src="assets/images/extraction_1.PNG" alt="Welcome screen of eXdpn UI" style=""/>

2. In the popup: Select the parameter you want to change in the dropdown (3) type the new value (4) and click save (5).   

<img src="assets/images/extraction_config.PNG" alt="Welcome screen of eXdpn UI" style=""/>

3. Make sure your device is allowed to connect with SAP. After everything is set, close the Popup und start Extraction (5). 

#### Extraction from SQLite
You don't have to set SAP credentials. Instead go to Configuration Popup and select "Use SQLite 3 database instead SAP" (6)


### Dataset management (upload, download, delete) (Pedro)

In the data management page, you are given the possibility to either extract logs from the SAP or to upload them from your local file system. 

To do this the first way, simply click on the button "EXTRACT FROM SAP". A message should then appear on your screen, below the extraction button, telling you if the extraction was successful or not. Beside this button, you may notice that there is also another one, where "CONFIG" is written. Its main function is to allow you to configure all SAP connection parameters, which are: user,
passwd, ashost, saprouter, msserv, sysid, group, client, lang and trace. If you want you update one of those parameters, simply click on this button. A modal will then appear, where a drop-down menu with all the parameters is given. Choose the parameter you want to update, enter its new value, and then save your changes. A message should also appear under the "SAVE" button, telling you which parameter has been successfully updated.

If, instead of uploading logs from the SAP, you want to upload them from your own local file system, simply click on the button "Upload .jsonocel files". Your local file system should then pop up, enabling you to upload any desired file. Please note, however, that only .jsonocel files are accepted.

All your extracted and/or uploaded files should be visible in the section "View and select file for analysis". There, you will have not only the possibility of selecting specific files to be deleted, but also to be downloaded. All files will then be ready to be filtered, as we will see now thoroughly in the next section.

### Filtering datasets (Kacper)
On the same [data management page](dms) you can find a Filtering segment that presents you with an opportunity to refine your data based on the preliminary analysis results. That way, you can observe how your process models change in relation to minor modifications in the underlying data and draw conclusions accordingly. Our UI offers some tools and options that will make your work more productive and comprehensive:
#### Filter on Event Attributes
1. Choose the event attribute that you want to filter by, say, "ocel:activity"
2. Pick a list of values for that attribute from the dropdown that appeared after that.
3. Positive/Negative - here you have to decide whether you want to leave the values chosen in the data (Positive) or their complement (Negative). Negative is chosen as default.

This is how that would be implemented in the backend:
```
filtered_ocel = pm4py.filter_ocel_event_attribute(ocel, "ocel:activity", ["Item out of stock", "Fuel Car", "Reorder Item"], positive=False)
```
... and here's how you can achieve the same result with minimal effort using our UI:
![Event filtering](assets/images/filtering/event/event_filtering.gif)

#### Filter on Allowed Activities per Object Type
Similarly to Filter on Event Attributes, for the next type of filtering you need to:

1. Choose the object type that you want to filter by, e.g. "order"
2. Set the Positive/Negative flag (Negative as default)
![Object filtering](assets/images/filtering/object/object_filtering.gif)

#### Buttons
To understand how the buttons work, one first needs to account for the mechanics behind filtering in this application and how it is interconnected with the data management system.
- First of all, filtering is carried out discretely (in steps) by pressing the **Filter** button. Every step may consist of one or more filtering options being used: this is done to make your work more efficient. If it makes sense to keep a couple of different filtering substeps part of the same logical step, you are more then welcome to apply more then one filter at the same time. 
- If you follow this path, it will be easier to go back in time using the **Rollback** button. Rollback reverts to the state of the data before the last filtering step was applied (so, basically, before you pressed the Filter button). 
- Sometimes, you may want to decide to abandon your changes to the data completely even after going through multiple filtering steps. This can be done using the **Rollback all** button. It gives you the guarantee of going back to the original state of the selected file.
- Together with the next button, **Save all**, the rollbacks enable you to version-control your datasets. After a given number of filtering steps, you can save your changes into a new file (with a name having a "_filtered" suffix). The original branch is then reset to the state before filtering. This functionality can also be used to copy files (after zero steps). Subsequently, the newly created file is automatically selected and so any next step will be applied to the old and not to the new file. 
  * Be careful: all intermediate states are deleted after saving changes to a new file. This means that rollback does not work on the new file anymore (or on the old one, since its state is reset too).
  * Don't worry about the filename resolution too much. If a filename is already in use, we will definitely find a free one!
  * You DO NOT have to save changes if you want to download the event log in its current form.
- Finally, **Clear all** is the Big Reset option that will come in handy once you want to move to a new task or start again from scratch. It will delete all files together with their intermediate states and replace them with a singular example event-log. It can thus be understood as a cache-cleaning tool and is also invoked on start-up of the application, preventing memory leaks and making sure it will not get cluttered after longer use. The user should consider either rebooting or pressing that button from time to time (given that they can export their more well-baked event logs and import them in a new instance anyway) instead of running the same instance indefinitely.
### Analysis (Jean)

## Troubleshooting
* It is possible that by filtering by event attributes you will, incidentally, filter out all event traces corresponding to a specific object type. You may therefore get a KeyError concerning this object type, since pm4py assumes that 
* If you press **Download** without pressing **Save all** first, you will download the most recent state (after filtering) of the event log to be sure but bear in mind that the old file will still preserve changes done to it. Meaning, if you uploaded that file again, the two event logs would be the same. Although it is the desired behavior, it differs from when you would just save the changes: then, the old file would be reset and the new one would preserve the changes.

## Further information
Links to the documentation of the used libraries and frameworks.
